[MUSIC PLAYING]
[AUDIO LOGO]
>> Looking up in the sky, and it
was three white lines vertical.
There was one that always
stayed away from it.
>> I don't know what I saw.
>> A blip in the
sky, streak of light.
>> Dark hovering object above a
bridge that we were coming back
from and almost looked like a--
>> Weird, kind of amorphous
opalescent kind of thing.
>> An unidentified object.
It was coming in very fast.
>> It was staying perfectly
still and stationary in the sky
for about four to five minutes,
until it started to move.
>> And it was so distraught,
and it was really wicked.
To this day, I don't
know what it is.
>> Made a hard right turn,
went up like 90 degrees.
They figured that it was
traveling at something
like 800 miles an hour.
>> And then they
changed formation.
First, it was vertical,
then it went lateral
and then they changed to
like a rectangle shape
but that one always stayed
away from the others.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I started out at a very young
age witnessing anomalous events
such as UFOs.
And that's what got me
interested in the field
of ufology.
I became a researcher
and a speaker.
Throughout the years, I have
come across hundreds of people
from all walks of life, from
all around the world who
also have had similar
experiences, witnessing UFOs.
And so this
phenomenon is not new.
It's very old and
very widespread,
yet this entire subject has
been lacking credibility
and acceptance from society but
also from the establishment.
And it wasn't until 2017 when
The New York Times came out
with an article featuring three
leaked videos from the US Navy
that totally defied explanation,
that the conversation began
to shift.
>> I got it!
[LAUGHS]
Woo-hoo.
>> Roger that.
They start shooting--
>> They are all going
against the wind.
The wind's 120 miles west.
Well, if there's
anything, it's rotating.
There's a whole fleet of them.
Look on MSA.
>> My gosh.
>> On the USS Princeton, I
was responsible for classified
material, top secret
data recording.
In November in 2004,
we were doing workups
in preparation for
our next deployment.
>> I was on the USS Princeton.
I was the leading
operations specialist.
And basically, we control the
radars, we man the radars.
We fight the ship if
we ever go to combat.
My primary job was to
identify everything
that flew in the sky.
On November 10th,
I started to notice
some really strange contacts
off the coast of Catalina.
>> During those workups,
we tracked unknown aircraft
for several days.
>> This is the context here--
at 28,000 feet going south about
100 knots, and I'm
thinking to myself,
I never seen anything
fly like that.
I had 15 and 1/2
years actual sea time
sitting behind that radar.
At one point, it
was raining UFOs.
I'd never seen
anything fly like this.
And all the other ships
are tracking it too.
Fast Eagle flight
happened to be airborne.
Commander Fravor, the
first one to launch off
the Nimitz aircraft carrier.
These objects fell out.
These things went straight
back up to 28,000 feet
again in less than a second.
And then at the very end, it
was right in front of him.
Disappeared.
>> They exhibited flight
capabilities that were well
beyond anything that
I'd ever seen before.
So I'm pretty familiar with
just about the fastest things
in the sky.
And these things kind of made
them look like they're toys.
>> Because these videos were
taken by military servicemen,
the Navy and the Pentagon
eventually confirmed
the veracity of these sightings.
Senator Reid, Senator
Rubio and others
prompted Congress to
investigate these events
and publish an official
report on these findings.
Even though multiple credible
cases were investigated,
the UAP Report--
Unidentified Aerial
Phenomenon, turned out
to be inconclusive, which
unfortunately did not
surprise many of us
in the UFO community.
>> When you don't know
what it is, of course,
nothing can be
conclusively ruled out.
>> Can they come up
with any explanation?
>> Really just a fraction of
evidence the government has
on UFOs.
>> What does the US
government know about UFOs?
>> Had that bombshell not
come out in The New York Times
and Politico and CNN, we
wouldn't be where we are today.
The Pentagon has not
been forthcoming at all.
They have been a huge
pain in the ass regarding
this topic, massively.
And what's really
needed with this topic--
real evidence, real data.
However long it takes.
That's the stuff that
becomes foolproof.
>> The next morning, I get
up I say, what the heck?
I'm going to write a very
detailed message about what
happened.
I went back up the Combat
Information Center, CIC.
And one of the lead technicians,
he looks at me and says,
so chief, the data isn't
on the ship anymore.
I said, what are you--
what are you talking about?
He said, somebody
came on-board our ship
and they took our data.
In fact, they made
us erase everything
down in the computer room, even
black tapes had gotten erased.
>> We had our data recording for
all of our equipment taken off
the ship.
And on top of that,
we were ordered
to erase everything that
was left in the shop.
>> And for them to take
it, it was highly unusual.
I raised my hand
and said, I think
we've got a safety issue here.
And I would try to
describe what happened.
And I got laughed at.
I got ridiculed.
There was jokes posted.
There were cartoons
posted about me.
And I got--
I got so frustrated.
It ended my career.
>> Some of my shipmates
lost careers, lost wives,
lost the ability to be
able to see their children.
These are all the
consequences of these events
that happen that we're
told to not talk about.
>> And it was really scary.
It was really lonely.
And at one point, I
ended up, I didn't
know what I was going to do.
I had gone through all this
pain and suffering, if you will.
>> It is unimaginable to think
that a UFO encounter could
affect these guys to such a
point that they would lose
their careers, they would lose
their personal and social life.
Now I feel even more determined
to help find some answers
about their experience.
I feel after all these years,
if the government is not
officially at a point where
they can offer real answers
to these very widespread
sightings, well maybe,
it is up to us to
look into the subject
but from a new
scientific perspective.
Because that has
never been done.
I decided to take
on this challenge.
I'm going to find a way to team
up with scientists and experts
on this and see if we can
capture these objects ourselves
and offer some answers.
But first, I want
to invite someone
that I really, really love--
William Shatner.
I met him on multiple
projects, because he is
the icon of the sci-fi world.
And he also has been involved in
the world of ufology and world
mysteries for a long time.
I think his insight
is going to be
fantastic to help us
bridge the gap from sci-fi
to real science.
And that will give us an
additional perspective
on what this UFO UAP
phenomenon is really about.
>> What has made mankind
is an insatiable curiosity,
insatiable.
What is that?
Nobody knows the phenomena.
>> This time, we're
talking about UFOs.
The fact that the government is
coming up with all these videos
and saying it's real.
>> Oh, they're saying it's
real, that that it's really
an unidentified flying object.
>> Have you seen the UAP report?
>> It's inconclusive.
>> Exactly.
Exactly.
So we're very frustrated--
>> Well, what do
you want to see?
>> Data.
Data.
I think that there were a
lot of very credible cases--
Air Force pilots,
Navy, Military.
There are so many of
those credible cases
that you would think by now, we
have some sort of investigation
and data reporting--
>> No, no.
They had investigations.
You would think by now
that they would say,
here's a piece of
something or here is--
>> Yes.
>> Right.
>> So I had an idea.
>> Which is?
I'm sure it was a good one.
>> I thought we need to go
all the way and do something
at a much bigger scale.
We need to do a
scientific investigation.
>> I think that's marvelous.
>> Those Navy pilots were
off of the coast of Catalina.
And this is where they saw these
Tic Tac videos and other Navy
ships as well, all
in the same area.
That's kind of
what I'm thinking.
We put a team of scientists,
experts, military folks
as well, since they
have the experience,
and attempt to capture
something in real time.
>> Yes.
If you could hone in--
>> Electronically and visually--
>> Yes.
>> On some unidentified
flying object,
you'd certainly have made news.
That's for sure.
>> The Tic Tac
video, for example.
There is no other angles
of the same object.
We don't have any sort
of radiation detection.
We don't have any--
>> Don't have a triangulation.
>> We don't have
any triangulation.
>> Although, the radar picked
it up as well as the cameras
on the ships if
I'm not mistaken.
All you need is a phenomena.
>> It sounds like you
think it's a good idea?
>> Oh, it's a wonderful idea.
>> Great.
>> Well, I can't tell you
how much I'm looking forward
to hearing and hopefully
seeing what you've uncovered.
>> Awesome.
Thank you.
>> That's what we need-- the
smoking gun that will clinch
it, that once and for all
will settle the debate.
No ifs, ands, or buts.
And in the process, rewrite
all of human history.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was ecstatic to find out
that the Navy personnel from
the USS Nimitz encounter had
created the UAPx team with
renowned scientists and experts
to research the UFO phenomenon
in more depth and with rigorous
scientific methodologies.
So the UAPx team was the perfect
fit for this first expedition.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Oh they're here, Gary.
>> Hey, Gary.
Nice to meet you.
>> Nice to meet you in person.
>> Kevin.
>> Kevin, nice to meet you.
Awesome.
This is Jeremy.
>> Good to meet you.
>> Hi, Jeremy.
>> Kevin.
>> Mr. Voorhis.
>> Glad to meet you.
>> Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>> These are the guys who
were on the USS Princeton
everybody's been talking about.
So why should we work with
anybody else but the real folks
who lived it?
>> You guys started it.
>> Yeah.
>> And so this moment
is very exciting for me,
because if you want to bring
credibility to this phenomenon,
you have to go all the way.
I mean it has to be big.
It has to be scientific.
>> That's the very reason
why we started our company is
because we didn't
have those answers.
And--
>> We agree.
>> It was great that they came
out and let everybody know this
was a real thing.
But there needs to be more done.
>> Well, video is one thing.
But we've got to get more data.
>> Personally thinking, we need
to go back to where you guys
were--
Southern California.
What do you suggest?
What do you think we should do?
>> Well--
>> Well we got a couple
locations on that we kind
of thought that we're going to
do good coverage of the South
part of the island.
>> Ideally, Caroline, if we
could get a house on the beach
right here somewhere,
that would be ideal.
And then maybe a place with
a flat roof on Catalina.
>> Our third location
could be on the truck.
>> So if we do have two
stationary positions,
and then we have
Jeremy in one spot,
we could potentially achieve
some sort of triangulation,
which is very, very important--
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> In collecting data.
So at the end of the day,
who do we have on the team?
>> Well, we've got
myself Gary Voorhis.
We've got Kevin Day.
We've got Jason Turner.
>> And we were all on
the Princeton together.
>> We also have Dave
Altman and Michael Hall,
both experienced
UFO researchers.
Then we have our
scientists Kevin Knuth
who is an associate
professor in physics
and an expert in
exoplanet research.
We also have Matthew Szydagis,
an associate professor
in physics.
His expertise is in dark
matter, radiation detection.
Then we have David Mason.
He's invented several
of the devices that
can detect communication
patterns coming from UAP.
>> So we have optical.
We have acoustic.
What else we got?
>> We got thermal.
We've got everything
we can throw at it.
>> With all this equipment and
all of us over five days, 24/7,
if we don't see something, I'm
going to be very disappointed.
>> It would be pretty
disappointing if we don't see
anything.
But that is science though.
>> Has this ever
been done before?
>> Never.
>> Not that I know of.
>> I've never even seen
it from the government.
>> We're making history.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
While the main team is getting
set up at the Laguna location,
Gary, Kevin, and I
decided to charter
a plane to scout a location
on Catalina Island,
so we can have the best spot
for our potential sightings.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So after all of the events
happened and Kevin Day said,
hey, let's go out there and
let's go find out what they
are.
>> I want to make sure it is
the best vantage point facing
the channel.
>> Yeah, facing the channel.
>> Yeah.
Exactly.
>> My goal for the expeditions
is to prove they're real,
prove they're findable,
and prove these things are
renewable.
We can know what they are.
That's my goal.
>> I think we're going to
have a couple of really,
really good spots.
>> Let's see if we
can figure it out.
Let's see if we can find them.
Let's go get the
missing data ourselves.
>> I want to be the guy that
makes the identification.
That was my job in the Navy.
>> The best vantage point we
found on Catalina Island is
on the rooftop of a
building facing the channel.
We are going to have Dave,
Michael, and a friend of ours,
Chrissy Newton, set
up at that location.
They will be in constant
communication with us
on the mainland and will be
able to alert us as soon as they
have a sighting.
>> You set up on a
rooftop of a building.
>> Right.
>> You got a great
line of sight.
We've got all of the equipment
put out there already.
We're going to have you thermal,
your regular binoculars.
Anything you see, you can be
able to document and correlate
with the data that we
have on the other side.
>> I got a feeling we're
going to see something.
I mean, there's been
reports of sightings
out there since early 40s.
>> Well, you guys
know what to do.
Get over there.
Get everything set up.
>> Sounds great.
>> And--
>> We'll take shifts.
>> Yep.
>> Yep, You got it.
>> Awesome.
>> Let's get her done.
>> Michael and Dave
are off to Catalina.
We are very excited
but a bit nervous
because the logistics
for the setup on Catalina
and the communication
are quite difficult.
There are no trucks or
vehicles on the island
to help us move the equipment.
And even though we do have
a communication protocol
in place, we're going to have
to rely on a very spotty cell
phone service.
But with team effort, we're
keeping a positive outlook
and hoping for the best.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Looks like we made it, Mike.
>> Oh.
>> Let's get these
big guys set up,
and then we'll take a quick
inventory of what we got.
>> Give us a little bit of
a practice session on these
things moving out there.
And we'll see if we can keep
up with any UAP that's going
thousands of miles an hour.
You might have to--
>> You're going to get whiplash.
>> It's going to be hard to
catch them, but we'll see.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I hear that you've
assembled a team of top
scientists using
state-of-the-art equipment
to settle some of these
questions, I say to myself,
what took you so long?
I mean, the data is out there.
So we have to jump into
it wherever it goes,
wherever the data leads us,
that's where we have to go.
So I say, it's about time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Here we are.
The first day's for
equipment set up.
We already had power outages
and software malfunction.
We only have five days to
succeed at our mission.
So the stakes are high.
We have come prepared.
But the odds of capturing
real anomalous objects
within these five
days are 50/50.
We just don't know
what to expect.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I have a friend of
mine, Chrissy Newton,
another set of eyes.
They'll be three sets
of eyes instead of two.
All right.
I got something.
I got something, Michael.
Yep.
Over here.
Here.
Come here.
Hurry up.
It's up there.
It's moving.
It's frigging moving.
Hurry up.
>> Let me look.
>> You see a white ball
above the mountain?
>> Yeah, I do.
>> You see it, Mike?
>> Yeah.
>> I see it moving out.
Is it moving?
>> Yeah, it's moving.
Oh.
We saw a few things.
The first thing that
we saw when I walked in
was a UFO that was what
we think it was a UFO.
We're not 100% sure.
We did see some craft
of some sort that
was moving across the sky.
>> Tonight was good.
I mean, I guess having an
extra set of eyes did help.
We saw a couple of strange
lights in the skies,
as they say, when
we first got here.
And we saw a few more
about an hour later.
It's kind of getting
cloudy, so we
figured we'll pack
it in for tonight
and make it back
out tomorrow night.
>> When a team member
spots an anomalous object,
the protocol is to immediately
contact the rest of the team
to see if they are able to
capture the same object from
different angles.
And they also have to record
what they capture and send
the recording to our scientists.
Well, the cell communication
failed on that day.
But the recordings were sent
to the scientists for analysis.
This is our first capture.
We can't get too excited yet.
But being the first day, I
guess this is a good sign.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Good morning, gentlemen.
>> Good morning.
>> So we got everything out.
We got half our equipment up.
Did you get the radiation
detector running?
>> Yes, I did.
I got it running.
>> How's the UFODAP?
>> UFODAP got a new
software pushed out to me.
I'll get it installed
and running today.
>> Roger that.
How's the cosmic watch?
>> It's all patched
up and ready to go.
>> All right.
Roger that.
Everything going good?
Jason, anything to report?
>> No.
I think we're all good.
Let's get it going.
>> All right.
Well, let's work hard.
Let's get everything
up and running by noon.
We need to get as much
as possible time, data
recording while we're here.
This is our opportunity.
Let's get it done.
>> Excellent.
Let's do it.
>> All right.
>> Half of our equipment
is experimental.
The other half is, well, some
of it's old and some of it's not
and some of it's cutting edge.
So it's just a matter of--
hopefully, it will all work.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Where should we put this?
>> Well, guys, I think that the
primary place is going to be
right here in the corner
about where I'm standing.
>> All right.
>> We've got a pretty perfect
view of Catalina from here.
>> Let's try it.
>> You've got unrestricted
airspace over top of us.
So you guys-- this is
actually the little brother
of what I've got
in the O.S.I.R.I.S.
We've got the magnetometers.
We've got the GPS.
We've got wireless connectivity.
We've got all the
barometric pressure,
weather indicators, ADSB.
We can track known
aircraft with this.
And the best part about
this is, I can see this,
I can control this
from the O.S.I.R.I.S.
So if this thing is
putting out any signals,
we're going to get it.
>> One of my friends,
Travis Taylor,
who is an astrophysicist has
been involved in studying
anomalous events and UAPs
from a scientific perspective
for a long time.
So I thought I would invite
him to check out our setup
and get his take on some of the
new technology and equipment we
brought along.
>> I'm really optimistic.
This is great for the first day.
>> And we're going to have to
go through this frame by frame.
- Hey.
>> Hey, hey, hey, hey.
>> Hey, Trav, it's
been a long time.
Two years, I think
since the conference.
>> Yeah, it's been
a couple of years.
>> You guys know each other?
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
>> This is David Mason.
He's the brains behind
all the inventions,
but we have two major
brains here as well.
Wait until you see
what's upstairs.
It's crazy stuff.
>> Wow.
>> Would you like
to give him a tour?
>> Absolutely.
>> Well, I'd love to see it.
>> All right.
Perfect.
>> I'm really excited to
see the instrumentation,
the planning that these guys
have put into this experiment
is going to change the
culture in the world.
Scientists are going to
have to start taking this
more seriously, if
we're going to get
to the bottom of the phenomenon.
So I hear some
chirps and clicks.
>> The chirps are gamma
radiation which are higher
energy particles and then the
clicking is the beta radiation.
That's your software energy.
>> What part of the spectrum
are you able to look at?
>> From about 10 megahertz
up to about 2 gigahertz.
>> So you can see all the
radio stations and TV stations
and Ham bands and everything
that everybody would use.
So if something's there
that shouldn't be there,
then you'll see it.
>> Absolutely.
>> So what else you got here?
We've got eight FLIR
thermal cameras running.
>> Oh, wow.
And so you can see pretty
much the whole sky and FLIR
if you want to at night.
>> Absolutely.
>> Normally, UAP researchers
have one FLIR looking like that
way or that way.
Now, you can look
all over, right?
>> Many of the unknown objects
I have recorded often register
temperatures -20 Fahrenheit.
I've even had some down
to -80 Fahrenheit, which
is just extraordinarily
cold, exhibit no
exhaust and no
explanation for it.
>> So what's this thing.
>> This is a light
wave transmitter.
>> So you have a-- it's
connected to a laser
or something.
>> That's connected to a light
wave transmitter assembly.
There seems to be an
oddity about them,
because people report
that they pulsate.
And my theory is that there
must be some sort of information
or data.
>> So what if a UAP is
off in the distance,
and it's modulating
its brightness,
changing its brightness
with an information pattern.
They're communicating
with us, right?
And when you convert
that to sound,
our brains and our ears and
various computer algorithms
could find a pattern in that.
>> That's correct.
>> We can also take that sound
that we receive and put it
right back on the transmitter--
>> And send it right back to it.
>> Right back to them.
So if they're sending out
data we don't understand,
we can say, here you go.
>> Well, see, and that's
the first protocol in any
communication.
As you say hello, world.
If you hear hello,
world, you say hello,
world right back to them.
So what's really
cool about this is,
you've got a capability here
to maybe detect communications
and rebroadcast
those communications
in both electromagnetic, our
radio station, microwave,
all that, optical, ultraviolet,
visible, and infrared light,
as well as temperature.
That gives you a broad range of
where potential communications
might be.
We have no idea how the
UAPs might be communicating.
>> That's right.
>> I'm really impressed.
This is exciting.
And I can't wait
to see it working.
And hopefully, we see
a UAP and talk to it.
>> I'd like to do that.
>> I would to.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We want to use really high
tech gear to collect some
techno signatures.
We're hoping to be able to use
that technology, if we do find
them, to actually
handshake these things
or maybe even talk to them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I got to tell you guys,
after having a tour of what
you've got here, I'm
really impressed.
You're covering
the phenomenologies
across the spectrum of physics.
I've never seen anything
as singularly-focused
as this effort for one
particular type of phenomena.
>> So here's another
one of these.
Can't take credit
for this, but this
is designed by my friends
and colleagues at MIT.
This is just a general
radiation detector
to look for anything
that's anomalous
above a normal background
reading in a given location.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I got another one.
>> Nice.
>> Look, Mike.
Mike, it's-- oh, my god.
>> OK.
>> Look towards--
it's right there.
I'm not taking off
of it this time.
You see it?
>> Oh, man.
That's big.
>> Yeah.
That's not a plane.
And it just-- and it just
showed up out of nowhere.
>> Let's see if we
can get this on tape.
>> Yep.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I got it.
>> Yup.
You got it.
Now I want to see
it until it's gone.
I want to see how it travels.
>> See how it leaves.
>> Yep.
That's what I want.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's not a star.
It wasn't there before.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And that would be a
really bright star.
There's no way that's a star.
That was not there.
>> It's pretty low
in the horizon too.
>> Yeah.
[PHONE RINGING]
>> Hey, Michael.
Go ahead.
>> Hey, we just saw
something quite anomalous,
and Dave and I both got it
on tape from our night vision
photography.
Different angles, same object.
>> All right.
I need to know
bearing elevation,
which way is it going?
>> 300 degrees northwest is
where it finally appeared
in front of us to about
29 degrees northeast
and disappeared in the clouds
towards the mainland of where
you guys are.
>> All right, Michael.
I'm looking on ADS-B
and MLAT right now,
we've got no aircraft in
the vicinity of the island
right now.
We've got a couple
coming up the coast.
And we've got one heading
south towards the island.
But there is nothing that
has either tracked or is
tracking in the directionality
that you're talking about.
>> All right, Jason, look 30
degrees towards the island.
So give me a-- give me
a description of it.
What did it look like?
>> It was just a solid
white spherical object.
>> Put your hands in front
of those two cameras for me.
All right.
Mark it on those two
cameras, 33 minutes ago,
so we can check that,
check the recording.
>> That's up to North Catalina.
We need you up there.
We got an object in film
by two different cameras.
>> Be right there.
>> All right.
So this is happening.
We just had a triple gamma
repeating frequency just now.
>> All right.
>> Yep.
Where's Matt?
>> I'm going to go
look with night vision,
because we need to be
watching for these things.
>> We need to be in the sky.
>> Keep your eyes peeled.
We're getting a lot
of triple spikes on--
>> On gamma.
>> I'm seeing a
blinking white light--
>> Hey, Jeremy, Jeremy, I
think it's time to get a third
vantage point.
We're going to take off.
>> All right, guys.
Right up by Avalon,
just left of Avalon,
there was a bright flash--
a couple flashes--
>> 737 max coming in towards us.
>> No, I saw the plane up.
It's about 45 degrees altitude,
but this was level with Avalon.
>> Oh, it's on the horizon?
>> On the horizon.
Really bright flash.
>> Coming straight
across their path.
There's a--
>> He's saying it's
on the horizon.
>> It would be on our horizon--
>> Did you say at Avalon?
>> Right here.
>> Yeah.
It was just to the
left of Avalon.
And it was like three
really bright flashes.
>> All right.
Hey, Jeremy, let's roll.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hey, Matthew.
>> Hey, what's going on up here?
>> I've been getting spikes.
>> It says increase
in radiation.
>> And it's been
increasingly gaining.
Sometimes, the
amplitudes are getting--
plateauing out where
it couldn't go anymore.
>> Like literally in the
last five, 10 minutes,
we're getting like three bursts.
>> But to get anything
from miles away,
that means it must be an
incredibly high flux source.
Just like a light bulb,
everything spreads out
in three dimensions.
In order to get a
reading of anything
from an object that's
really far away,
that means it has to be an
incredibly intense source.
>> Wow.
>> Of whatever is producing.
This is more interesting
if we can correlate this
as a spike being
at the same time
as the visual observations.
>> I'm so excited.
>> I'm very excited but need
to make sure it's not airplane,
satellite.
Although that's what's
so great about our setup
that makes it unique.
Because as far as
I know, there's
no such thing as a
radioactive bird or plane.
So that kind of
starts to help rule
out mundane
explanations like that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Yeah, dude.
There's nobody-- you
see where it's going.
>> All right.
>> Ain't nobody
coming out there.
>> Be done with it.
>> Power up.
One.
>> Hey, so sorry.
She got us?
>> All right.
She's rolling.
We're up, and we're
operational right now.
So-- they got the UFODAP
operational over where
they're at.
They're basically somewhere
about five miles away.
>> Can you see the laser?
>> --like around the [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, no.
That's-- I mean, look, there's
hardly any traffic heading that
way.
It's all coming this way.
>> Yeah.
>> We're getting
triple burst here.
>> Yeah.
We got another one.
>> Another triple.
>> Awesome.
>> We got a lot of triples
coming through, guys.
Keep an eye out.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We saw some anomalous
objects that are not satellites,
that are not drones.
The fact that these things were
solid in color, round ovoid
shape moving in an
anomalous pattern.
No sound.
That was incredible.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Do you see it?
>> It didn't activate
the camera at all.
It just-- that was
bright as hell.
>> Yeah, it was bright, bro.
>> It went right across
the screen like right here.
>> Yep.
Did you see it on the--
>> No.
It never showed.
OK.
That's the weird part.
>> Yeah.
>> It never showed
on the fisheye.
So the fisheye never
triggered the PTZ.
I only saw it on the PTZ camera.
[PHONE RINGING]
>> Just trying to check in and
see what you guys got going on?
>> All right.
So we got some weirdness
happening here.
>> What'd you get?
>> We saw an object
only on the PTZ camera.
It did not show
up on the fisheye.
And I've never seen where I've
got two cameras within two feet
of each other, one can see
the object and the other one
cannot.
So it's literally
an anomalous thing
where one camera is seeing
a cloud and the object,
when the other camera is
seeing just the cloud,
but I can't see the
object where it should be.
It's just not there.
It's the weirdest
thing I've ever seen.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It's fade?
>> It's gone.
It's gone.
It's frigging gone.
It's just gone.
>> It's disappeared, man.
>> Yeah.
Disappeared.
>> Holy mackerel.
>> Did you get that
on video disappearing?
>> Yes, I did.
>> Wow.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hey, David.
>> Yeah?
>> I was looking over
the cosmic watch records.
And I found a couple of high
rate events and a high energy
event.
And that was between
6:07 and 6:13 PM.
Do you have anything on
the FLIR at that time?
>> Yeah.
We have an anomalous object.
And this thing is
like an elongated--
I don't know what to call it.
Because it's not an aircraft.
It's not a bird.
It's not a bug.
It doesn't fit all of
the prosaic objects
that we are aware of.
And you notice that it's
moving where it's contradictory
to its trajectory.
So it's like it's
moving sideways.
>> Yeah.
>> Against the wind if
it were an aerial object.
>> This looks pretty similar
to the Nimitz Tic Tac incident.
>> It does.
It does look like that.
>> Oh, got it!
[LAUGHS] Woo-hoo!
Oh.
Going against the wind.
The wind's 129 miles west.
>> And there was a
32 MeV event, I mean,
within the time
synchronization and certainty.
>> And Matthew, I've
got something else here.
It is an object, appears
suddenly in the camera.
And then--
>> What was that?
There's a--
>> The object appears and
then moves off screen rather
suddenly, and then now it
looks like it's reappearing.
>> Is that the same
object coming back?
>> Could be.
I mean, it looks like
it's in the same location.
Did you just see
how it zigzagged?
>> Yeah.
>> It just moved
in and moved out.
This is exciting.
>> Certainly anomalous, right?
We're not going to be able
to explain that easily.
>> Not very easily.
You can't use all the prosaic
explanations of bird, bugs,
or aircraft on this one.
And then check this out.
We have an object that
it'll appear in the frame--
>> What was-- what is that?
>> You see that?
>> Yeah.
>> What is strange is, it's
registering cold in the thermal
camera over several pixels.
And it has some motion to it.
It looks like it rotates
or tilts and appears
and then dissipates
out of the frame.
>> That's even weirder than
the other things you showed me.
>> Yes.
>> What time was this at?
>> At 9:29 PM.
>> That matches in time to the
night vision videos that we got
from the island team.
Yeah.
That's when they called in
with their night vision videos.
They saw an anomalous object and
we also saw an anomalous object
in the FLIR.
That would be a
remarkable coincidence.
>> It would be remarkable.
How it would even
just appear and then
just disappear without leaving
the frame without showing
a path.
This was just in there
and then it wasn't.
>> It's fading.
>> It's gone.
It's gone.
It's friggin gone.
>> Another interesting fact
about this is that this
particular camera was aimed at a
45-degree angle toward Catalina
Island.
>> So could conceivably be--
>> Same object.
>> Yeah.
Because they're triangulating
from their perspective,
and then we're triangulating
and converging at two points.
>> That would mean that we
have seen the same object,
not only from different angles
but also three different
wavelengths, visible light,
and two different kinds
of infrared, right?
So that is unprecedented in
the history of UAP research.
>> Having correlating data
from different instruments with
different wavelengths,
including radiation,
that's just phenomenal.
>> In science, it's
very important,
especially when studying
an unknown phenomenon,
to be able to have multiple
different modes or modalities
of studying it and being able
to look at correlations between
different devices that are
studying the same phenomenon.
This reduces the probability of
equipment malfunction, glitches
and things like that.
Because the
probability was greatly
reduced of something being
accidental if you can see it
across different
devices, especially
if those different devices are
based on different technologies
and are looking at the
same thing different ways.
>> Today, July 14, 2021 is
an exciting eventful day.
At 5:26 PM, a pink object
appears, makes a U-turn,
exits frame, very anomalous.
6:07 PM, a high energy
radiation registers 32.32 MeV.
6:09 PM, we capture
another Tic Tac
like object traveling sideways.
Could this be the
same Navy Tic Tacs
that were observed in
2004 by the USS Nimitz
then by other ships from
2014 all the way to 2019?
That would be incredible.
Later that evening, at
9:29 PM, the Catalina Team
captures an anomalous object--
solid in color, on two night
vision cameras and one CCD
camera, which correlates
with a solid object caught
on our FLIR camera.
Now this object
registers cold, which
means it has no propulsion
system that we know of.
The object suddenly
disappears simultaneously
out of sight from
the multiple angles.
Even more intriguing is
that at the same time,
the O.S.I.R.I.S registers
one anomalous object
on one camera,
but not the other.
These are very intriguing,
very compelling events
and astounding correlations.
I think today was a breakthrough
in our expedition and research.
I am very hopeful we're
finally on the right track
in uncovering what these
Tic Tac objects may be
or at least getting more
evidential data on UAPs
and UFOs.
>> It takes just one credible
irrefutable piece of evidence
to change all of world history.
The entire literature
of the human race
would have to be changed if
we had just one incident that
is irrefutable.
>> Science is also about
the skills of data analysis.
It's not just the hardware,
it's the software.
And I don't just mean
computer software.
I mean, our human minds
and our intelligence
and applying it to
analyzing the data.
So here's the first
one right here.
And the night was pretty clear.
So you have to be
careful not to be
fooled by a lot of fuzzy
splotches, obviously stars.
You also see a lot of
fast objects go by,
which I'm pretty
sure are meteors.
>> But what is that?
>> No, that's very odd.
>> What is that
slow moving object?
>> And it's changing speed.
It just slowed down and
curved a little bit.
>> It's changing angle,
and it's not blinking.
It's not blinking
like an airplane
would with airplane lights.
>> Part of the scientific
analysis is to carefully rule
out objects that can
easily be taken for UFOs.
For example, human-made
advanced technology
or a mirage-like
object or an orb
that can easily mimic a
UFO, because of reflectivity
or some other atmospheric event.
>> There is a phenomena
that you haven't mentioned--
>> Yes.
>> We know that
whales sing songs.
And we know that
whales can hear them
across the ocean
1,000 miles away.
The sound bounces
off layers of water
of different
temperatures, and then can
be heard many miles away.
That same phenomenon applies
to light, you're aware of that,
right?
Fata Morgana is a mirage
when people and I've
seen this myself.
I've seen something on
a rock or some distance
away in the desert.
And you could sometimes
see a weird thing.
And when you came upon
it, it disappeared.
Something happening over there.
The light bounces off a
hot layer of air over there
and appears over here.
So those floating
ships that we've seen,
mirages and many, many other
objects, the explanation
is that a lot of phenomena
are natural and explicable.
Now it's also possible
that some of the phenomena
aren't explained.
And that's what you're
applying yourself to.
>> That's the idea
of this research,
is to explain the explainable
that the average person would
think is an anomaly.
But in fact, it's not.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
Exactly.
>> When the normal, average
person looks up at the night
sky, or even the daytime sky,
and they see something that
confuses them, typically,
they're making the cognitive
jump right to UAP.
I can tell you for a 100%
fact that we have technology
that does some crazy things
that looks so unconventional
that the vast majority of
the citizenry in this country
have no idea what's actually
flying in our skies.
For example, Northrop
Grumman's X-47B.
This is a Mach 0.9
plus-capable aircraft.
It is shaped almost in
an equilateral triangle.
This thing has a service ceiling
of roughly 40 to 50,000 feet.
So at that altitude, you're
not going to hear sound.
So the only thing that
a person may be seeing
is just the reflection
of ambient light
from the surface of
the aircraft which
makes it look as if there is
an illuminated triangle flying
across the sky.
One of the other
examples of a drone
that most people don't know
about is Northrop Grumman's Bat
They're much, much smaller.
The Bat could probably fit
in the trunk of my vehicle.
So these things can be launched
from a catapult on a ship
without having to have a
runway or a flight deck.
They are propeller powered,
electrically driven,
and they have an endurance
of up to 18 hours.
So this is a drone that
has a small battery pack,
but it still maintains a
very robust sensor capability
and an extended duration of
almost 20 hours of flight time,
giving it the capability of
getting out to sea, potentially
swarming around the
vessel and returning.
The things that the
Tic Tac was doing
in my understanding of
aircraft and flight dynamics
we still are not at that level.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Thanks for coming out, Ryan.
>> No problem.
I'll sit down and pick your
brain for a little while.
>> Sounds good.
>> All right.
So it's been a while.
>> It has been.
>> Thanks for
coming by, shipmate.
I appreciate you
visiting us here
while we're doing our research.
You were on board
when Commander Fravor
did his famous intercept and
the Tic Tac video was created.
>> Yes.
>> Could you walk me through
exactly how you found out
and what you were
doing on board.
I honestly never had met you,
and it's a pretty small ship.
>> Right.
I was part of the
air detachment.
I was leading Petty Officer
of HSL-43's detachment
on board you guys
with the Princeton.
I had actually been
in combat at the time
on the phone with the command
back home because we needed
something for our aircraft.
So we were working out
the logistics of that.
During that time frame,
the intercept was going on.
There was radar screen, so I
was able to see that and then,
of course, all of the commotion.
And what was going on around
me during that time frame
was definitely heightened.
>> Were you there when the
civilians that come on board?
I refer to them now as the men
in khaki because, you know?
>> Right.
So yeah, I was there
when they showed up.
I was in the hangar
during flight ops.
They came in, walked pretty
much straight out of the hangar
and left, came back a short
time later with some bags
and took off.
>> I can fill you in
on what they took.
>> Yeah, I know you can do that.
>> Yeah, all of
our data recording.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> So now you saw the Tic Tac
video and the Gimbal videos
and all the stuff that we know
about what actually happened
and the flight characteristics
of what it could actually do.
You being really familiar with
aircraft being in the air deck,
what did you think about it?
>> What I thought about it is
there's absolutely no aircraft
that can do what those things
we're doing that I know
of or have seen.
>> So no nobody wants
to be the UFO guy.
And this is just--
it's usually hard to
talk about anyways.
What made you be able to get
over all that to talk about it?
Was there a real big stigma
in the air deck about stuff
like that?
>> Well, there's always a
stigma when you talk about UFOs.
It doesn't matter if
people believe you or not,
you're going to get
something for it.
>> I was planning on
making a full second career
in the Department of
Defense as a contractor.
But because I was
clowned and ridiculed
and lost my reputation a little
bit, it destroyed me almost.
I saw this video on the TV.
I was like, oh, my [MUTED] God.
It's happening.
And I dropped a plate of food,
and I jumped on the internet
and found out what
had just happened.
That moment shook me
to the core because I
knew my life was
about to change again.
I had gone through all this
pain and suffering, if you will.
So I feel validated right now.
>> My thing is I saw what I saw,
and I can't unsee what I saw.
And if I saw it then it happened
and I want to back that up.
>> For me, I was lucky that I
didn't have the level of PTSD
that some of the other guys did.
But instead of trying to make
this public, I internalized.
For a long time after the event,
I was emotionally completely
void.
I didn't really care honestly
whether I lived or died
or whether or not anybody wanted
to have a relationship with me,
nor was I capable
of having any type
of interpersonal relationship.
>> We need to tell the truth
about the things that we see.
>> Yeah, and that's the one
thing that really bugs a lot
of us about that too, is that
we couldn't tell the whole truth
about things.
And if you did, nobody
would believe you
because the government
didn't tell the truth either.
>> Of course.
>> So do you want to see what
we've got going on upstairs?
>> Oh, I'd love to see it.
>> All right, let's go do it.
>> Every step we make towards
finding out what these Navy Tic
Tac objects are about is a step
towards these guys' recovery
in a way, in coming to terms
with the event that changed
their lives.
I feel with this mission, we are
uncovering more and more pieces
of the puzzle that
will hopefully
someday bring some answers
to these very strange events.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We are four days
in the expedition.
I am getting really
excited about the results
we have so far.
Hopefully, we'll
have more tomorrow.
Meanwhile, David
Mason's inventions
that convert light to
sound and sound to light
have been operational 24/7.
They've been capturing
the light that
comes from objects in the
sky and retransmitting
the same pattern back
to space non-stop.
I decided to give
it a try and see
if we could capture the
sound of an anomalous object
and broadcast our own music and
sound back to them in space.
This is, of course--
>> That's Altair.
>> --which star is that--
>> You're looking at Altair.
So if you aim the
goggles and keep it
in the center field of view--
>> Right, right.
>> Now you can hear it.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> You can hear
the rumble from it.
>> Oh, there's an airplane.
Oh, I can hear the
airplane it's different.
Can you see over
there, over there?
Can you see?
It's getting a different sound.
>> It looks like it
could be a satellite.
>> Oh, wow.
How cool?
[LAUGHS]
So is this the middle one?
Is that the visible light?
>> Yes.
So we have two different types
of music being transmitted
on two different spectrums.
So it's kind of
like radio stations
that have different frequencies.
So that way, we can separate
them out and just put out
different data.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I am blown away by
David Mason's inventions.
If we are able to capture the
sound of objects in the sky,
then we can potentially identify
the acoustic pattern of a UFO
which can give us
more information
about the properties
of these objects.
And the music that we broadcast
can reach all points in space,
and potentially a UFO
would receive our music
as a mode of communication.
And hopefully it will attempt
to communicate back with us here
on Earth.
The only way to find out if
this mode of communication works
is to keep the devices
running continuously
and see if we can then correlate
them with an actual UFO
sighting in a measurable way.
That would be phenomenal.
>> Day four, I'm really tired.
I hadn't been sleeping at all.
Other than that, we still
got some more anomalous data
with the radiation detectors.
And we get the FLIRs
going continuous still.
Looking forward to
tomorrow, I'm going
to go catch a couple
hours of sleep.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [YAWNS] I wonder when Gary
gets here so I can catch some
sleep.
>> Already here.
>> Too late.
>> Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Good morning.
>> Morning.
>> That was all right.
>> Oh, well, you
still have to work.
Everything's starting
to look up finally.
>> Yeah, that's good, bro.
That's really good.
>> It's good for everybody
except the neighbors.
>> I think our equipment
can see through their walls.
>> Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Yeah, when the police
came in last night,
they were a little
concerned at first.
But then once we
showed them what
we had going on, it was
like, man, he was intrigued.
>> Yeah, it must have been
interesting since they sent
the other two up here too.
[LAUGHTER]
At least they all
had a good time.
>> That's true.
That's true.
All right, man, let's get to it.
>> Let's get to work.
>> How come it's always
radiation and they're never
bringing coffee?
>> Well--
>> Well, you know.
>> Hey, we got an anomalous
event for you to check out.
>> Did it show up on FLIR?
>> Nope.
But you know what?
I think you can help us with it.
Check it out.
It goes all the
way down the coast,
turns around, tracks back up.
That little black dot is us.
>> Wait.
What's on that orange path?
Is that--
>> That's the flight path, the
historical flight path going
down, coming back out, veering
out right over our roof.
>> Oh.
Is that a helicopter?
[LAUGHTER]
>> Yeah.
Yeah, it's a heli.
>> Helicopter.
>> Wait.
>> It's a helicopter.
>> Yeah.
>> But wait.
It's--
>> Just messing with you, man.
>> Couldn't this be
corporate espionage?
>> I called the company.
>> --not much of
a corporation yet.
That's a video of it
going over the top of us.
>> That's crazy.
>> Yeah.
Get back to work, man.
>> All right.
>> So, Gary.
>> Yeah.
>> Navy guy walks into a bar.
He's got a 3 foot salami
under one arm and a poodle
under the other.
>> Yeah.
Sounds like a good time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This has been hard because
it's a huge amount of work,
a huge amount of
data and equipment.
But I'm getting really excited
because David Mason tells me
he recorded a flurry of
raining objects falling down
from the sky.
Kevin Day said at one point
it was raining Tic Tacs.
I don't know if these
are the same raining Tic
Tacs that Kevin Day
was talking about.
But it sure sounds
very intriguing,
and I can't wait to find out.
>> What do you guys got?
>> We've got something really
interesting here, Gary.
Now, watch the screen.
What we have is
objects that appear
to be dropping from the sky.
And do you see that?
It's just--
>> Yeah--
>> --there momentarily and looks
like they're actually dropping
into the ocean.
And--
>> That's crazy.
>> And I've looked at
this and I'm thinking,
could this be a camera artifact?
However, there's a
transition of decay time.
So this is very strange.
>> So could these be like
ice forming and dropping
into the water or I mean--
>> No, because what we're also
seeing is it's transitioning
where it's appearing in the
field of view momentarily
and then disappearing.
But it's clearly having a
trajectory that's downward.
>> I'm seeing them come in and
then out and then in again when
they hit the water.
>> It looks like
It looks like they
illuminate in the water.
>> That's amazing.
>> Does this remind
you of anything?
>> Sure it does.
It reminds me of the
Tic Tacs from '04.
They would go from 28,000 feet
down to sea level like that,
I mean, just straight
down, just like that.
>> I first saw the first group
of those whatever they were
on the 10th of November.
And the intercept with fast to
go flight happened on the 14th.
And I continued to
see these things up
until about the
19th of November.
And they were always
in groups of 5 to 10.
But if you were to
add up all the groups,
it was about a hundred
of these objects.
>> There were dozens of
such tracks like this,
which correlate not only with
high energies but also high
rates in the cosmic watch.
>> After we examined the
videos that we recorded,
we were able to calculate
the size of the objects based
on the camera field of view and
the distance of the horizon.
We found that the objects
were at least 4 feet across
and falling at least
at 5,000 miles an hour.
And the objects
that were distant
were measured out
at 69 feet across
and falling at a speed of at
least 84,000 miles per hour.
So even if we were off
in calculations by 50%,
we have some
extraordinary numbers
that can't explain this
phenomenon as being something
natural or known.
>> Hey, you guys,
what are you up to?
>> They're showing me some
basically objects falling from
the sky to the ocean.
They found some correlating data
with the radiation detection.
And I mean, honestly, it reminds
me of the stuff we were seeing
in '04.
>> Wow.
Tic Tacs.
They may be Tic Tacs.
>> Maybe.
>> Caught on our cameras.
>> Yeah.
>> That's incredible.
>> And the fadeout makes it look
like it is really something--
>> Correct.
>> --dropping from the sky
based on the way it fades out.
>> That's great.
Wow.
We got a lot of stuff actually.
>> Honestly, I'm very surprised
by everything that we've got.
>> You know, David, yesterday we
were doing all the night vision
stuff.
>> We just continuously
broadcast this over ultraviolet
spectrum and wide spectrum
and infrared spectrum.
>> So let's say we provoked it.
>> We provoked it.
[LAUGHS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We have recorded objects
falling down from the sky
at extraordinary speed that seem
to have similar characteristics
as the raining Tic Tacs that
Kevin Day witnessed in 2004.
Our measurements of
their size and speed
also fall within the same
range as the findings made
by the Scientific
Coalition of UAP Studies
as well as Dr. Knuth's
scientific paper Entropy.
These in-depth scientific
analysis of the Navy Tic Tacs
detail similar estimated
size and velocities
in the tens of thousands
of miles per hour,
just like the objects we have
captured on our FLIR cameras.
We are getting more
validation from
other legitimate organizations
about potential UAP properties,
which is exactly what
is needed for this level
of rigorous research.
>> So what kind of category
do we think these things are?
Are they physical objects,
natural phenomena?
Are they mental manifestations?
Are we all imagining
seeing these things?
I doubt that because we measure
it with scientific instruments.
We're not all being hacked
and spoofed on this.
So my thoughts are
it is from some sort
of intelligent creation and
intelligent construction.
Meaning, it's a
technological device.
It could be organic.
It could be electromagnetic.
I mean, who knows what?
>> On this hand, it's ours.
And on this hand, it's not ours.
And the answer lies
somewhere in between.
So my mind right now is open.
If it turns out to be our stuff
or some other country stuff,
I'm good with that.
OK.
I have my answer.
If it turns out to be
something not from this planet,
I'm good with that too.
OK, I have my answer now.
>> That stuff, knowledge,
information, engineering,
that right now, to my knowledge,
nobody on this planet knows how
to do.
>> Right.
>> So that suggests that it's
somebody from some other place
has done this or
maybe other time.
>> And I think that's
an important point.
You mentioned earlier
the multiple cases.
You mentioned the Bethune case.
That's from 1951.
And you've got
these objects moving
at very high accelerations
and taking off at high speeds.
The pilot estimated
it as leaving
at about 1,500 miles
an hour, and it
was tracked on radar
from Newfoundland
at 1,800 miles an hour.
This is two years
before the air speed
record of 695 miles
an hour was broken.
So this thing was moving
three or four times
faster than the
air speed record.
There are also now declassified
reports, thanks to FOIA,
mentioning flying
white butane tanks.
That sounds like a lot
like a Tic Tac to me.
And that was the late
'40s, early '50s.
>> Let me put this
in perspective.
Einstein, Rosen,
and Podolsky came up
with these concepts
in the 1905 time frame
into later about 1913.
So in about 100 years
is all that humanity
has had a basic
construct to say faster
than light travel, wormholes,
warp drives are even possible?
And it wasn't until 1994 that
someone was clever enough,
Alcubierre came up with the warp
physics that says, OK, well,
the physics we've learned since
1905 tells us, OK, maybe it
is possible to do what
they do in "Star Trek"
and other science
fiction movies and books.
But that's only
100 to 120 years.
>> Yeah.
>> Not thousands, not millions--
>> The universe is
13.7 billion years old.
There's a civilization
somewhere near us
that's thousands of years old.
Their Einstein was 10,000
years ago, for example.
So where does that put them now?
>> What if you have multiple
civilizations and they have
different technologies?
And they use different--
>> Of course, they do.
>> --things.
>> The other thing that happens
is space gets compressed
because the distance is shorter.
The space isn't empty.
You've got about one hydrogen
atom per cubic meter.
So as you compress space
at very high speeds,
you're no longer flying
through a vacuum.
You're flying through a cloud
at close to the speed of light.
It's going to rip your
ship apart in no time,
unless you have
a technology that
allows you to travel through
matter without affecting it,
like, we actually
see here with--
>> That is an excellent point.
>> --crafts moving through
the air without sonic booms
or moving through
water without splashes.
We observe--
>> That's the other counter
that's always giving--
>> That's data.
>> We made it, guys.
We got a lot of great data.
And I just wanted
to let you guys
know I'm very proud of the way
that you guys have performed
above and beyond
any expectations
I could have ever had.
We got some great
results, and let's start
getting ready for the next one.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The past five days have been
very hard and very exciting.
We managed to capture multiple
anomalies in multiple locations
across multiple
devices in real time.
This is a first in
the field of ufology.
What are the odds that we would
capture the exact Navy Tic
Tacs that these guys saw
over their ship in 2004?
Now, it's up to the
scientists to continue
analyzing the data
over the next few weeks
and tell us more about the
properties of these objects
and what this phenomenon
is really about.
>> That's right.
>> Hey, you guys.
We've made it.
>> Hey, glad you're here.
>> You're going to need
to sit down for this
because it's pretty
mind blowing.
>> Wow.
>> So grab a seat.
>> OK.
We want anomalies.
Is this very different?
>> Yeah, and the story starts
with the list of anomalous
events in the cosmic watch.
So I made a list
of all events that
were either high in energy,
high in rate or both.
So the highest energy we
recorded in the cosmic watch
was 43.37 megaelectron
volts, MeV.
So that's the highest we
recorded the entire week.
It's sort of the maximum
for terrestrial radiation.
2 MeV is more average.
>> Oh, wow.
>> That high energy event I
just mentioned was at 4:01 AM.
At 3:59 AM, this is what
the UFODAP recorded.
There's a hole in
the clouds, which
is not abnormal to have a hole
in the clouds that closes.
But notice those
strange dots within it.
And also, if you
go frame by frame,
it closes in a
fraction of a second.
That seems to be too fast
for natural cloud formations.
>> For clouds to move
in and close the hole,
they would have had to be
going something like 700 miles
an hour.
>> How far away was it?
>> Yeah, I can show
you a diagram I've made
of the situation.
Yeah, so it's
basic trigonometry.
We're using the known angles.
So we know which direction
the camera's aiming.
We know the field of
view of the camera.
And that hole was about 18
degrees above the horizon.
And so given a cloud
ceiling of about 1,700 feet,
you can say that hole was about
1.2 kilometers off the coast.
And so it's an elliptical hole.
It's about 0.4
kilometers long and then
about 0.1 kilometers wide.
It looks like it's a
hole in the clouds,
or it could be a
fallstreak cloud.
Those typically happen when
you have very high altitude
clouds and a section of the
cloud that then spontaneously
freezes, and then
the crystals fall out
and leaves a hole in the cloud.
That isn't possible in this case
because the cloud ceiling was
only 1,700 feet, and
it wasn't cold enough
for it to be that kind of cloud.
A hole like that could
also be explained
from an airplane
or another aircraft
flying through the clouds
that can cause a hole as well.
We didn't have any aircraft
going through at the time.
And the UFO depth cameras
didn't pick up any craft.
Now, the cameras
did start recording
because they detected something.
>> Oh, and Jeremy
slowed it down.
There's also a new
dot that appears
in the last couple of frames.
>> Yeah.
The dots-- there are a
few dots appearing, yeah.
>> Yeah, but there's one fresh--
there's one lonely dot,
fresh dot that appears.
>> Did you check the radiation
data with any outside
organizations?
>> We did.
We looked at the data from
Fermi, the NASA spacecraft that
looks at gamma ray bursts
from distant astrophysical
phenomena.
There is no correlation there.
We did have to check
also for solar activity.
This event is not correlated
with the solar activity.
>> So what about the FLIR?
Anything with the FLIR.
>> Unfortunately--
>> No.
>> --the FLIR about seven
minutes before this event took
place, all eight FLIR
cameras shut down.
We lost power.
And power was distributed
from two different sources.
>> I don't think
it's a coincidence.
So this really
bothers me because it
reminds me of how the
phenomenon is often
associated with
electromagnetic anomalies
that cause things to
break, cars to turn off
and things like that, that I
think it's really "convenient"
that the FLIR went down.
>> How about the people
who would say, well,
maybe there is something
malfunctioning with the camera?
What would you say to that?
>> We actually have several
minutes before the video we
looked at.
We have another video that
doesn't have the speckles
but has the hole
several minutes before.
But then even better, we
have the entire week's worth
of UFODAP video
and imagery where
it's functioning perfectly.
It's triggering on birds.
It's triggering on planes.
And it even has a built-in
classification system
where it says
percentage probability
it's a plane or a bird.
Not only that, we also
have direct controls
from a nearly identical part of
the sky, day and time, no hole,
just clouds.
And the camera's functioning
perfectly normally.
So there's just too many
strange coincidences here
with all the different
events stacked together.
I mean, it's really
easy to take one video
and say it's this or that
or it's not really anomalous
because it can be anything.
But it can't be anything because
we've done these calculations,
and we have these correlations.
So it's extremely
unlikely that it was
a malfunction in the camera.
>> Was there any correlative
data with weather radar
or anything like that?
>> Yeah.
We were able to
obtain weather radar.
Just before 4 o'clock, you
see a large clump of area
where you have a
lot of turbulence.
And so this is correlated with
the presence of that hole.
The radar shows that
there was actually
reflective objects in the area.
>> High energy particles and
gamma rays would have bombarded
the entire CCD
chip on the camera,
resulting in spots uniformly
spread across the image.
As a result, these really
appear to be physical objects
somehow appearing
or materializing
in the hole in the clouds.
The radar return suggests
that we are seeing the objects
through the hole in the
clouds at a distance of about
5 kilometers away.
Thus the objects are most
likely about 35 to 50 feet
in size, which is the estimated
size of the Tic Tac objects
in the 2004 Nimitz encounter.
>> Wow.
>> If you have something
anomalous in different devices
at the same time that reduces
the probability, this is why,
for example, I've never bought
in to the claims that the, oh,
the Nimitz encounter or that
was just the radar didn't work.
So then the pilot's eyes
were also deceiving them.
At the exact same time, the
radar wasn't working properly.
And the radar wasn't working
properly at the exact same time
the FLIR cameras wasn't.
It's just so absurd to
claim that multiple devices
and multiple different
imaging modalities were
all conveniently malfunctioning
at the same time,
telling you the same thing?
That is absolutely insane.
>> Well, with all
this, well, what is it?
>> Because of how it looks like
a hole that is open and then
closing, we called
it a wormhole,
which got me obviously
extremely excited.
However, we have to be careful
because that would be obviously
a major scientific
discovery that
would require a great deal more
evidence than what we have.
Worst case, if
it's not something
tied in with our main
goal looking for evidence
of non-human intelligence,
this is a new phenomenon that's
no one's ever discovered.
This is an unidentified,
unclassified new phenomenon.
>> We are adding to
the UAP unidentified--
>> We're adding to the lexicon
of unidentified objects.
>> Wow.
>> I forgot who it was
who stated most scientific
discoveries don't
begin with Eureka.
They begin with huh.
That's exactly
what we have here.
It's one of those huh.
What the heck is that moment?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think that interstellar travel
is one of those things that
is not impossible.
It's just really hard.
And it's not impossible even
with the laws of physics
as we know them.
What's so fascinating is that
when I was six years old,
I thought that wormholes
were real for interstellar
transportation.
I called them
portals at the time.
They're what got me dreaming
of becoming a physicist,
and here we are today.
We are turning science
fiction into real science.
We could be heading
towards the biggest see,
I told you so in history.
>> In 1935, Einstein wrote a
paper with his student Nathan
Rosen, creating the
Einstein-Rosen Bridge,
a bridge that, in principle,
could allow you to break
the light barrier.
Take a black hole which
basically looks like a funnel
and put two of
them back to back.
Stick the two funnels
together, and you now
have a gateway between
two universes that
would allow you, in
principle, to go faster
than the speed of light.
These are wormholes.
And are they possible?
Yes.
But you would have to be a
very advanced civilization
to do this.
>> What we're seeing are things
that I think transit reality.
They come to
partially to an area
of multi-dimensional realities
of some kind that cross over
periodically.
When they are here, the
thing is just as physical--
when this crossed over,
there's physically there.
But when they
separate again, it's
not so when you ask the
question is where did it go?
Where is not even
the right question.
But it's very hard for
us to contemplate things
that precipitate
into physical reality
and then dissipate into
apparent nothingness.
There's got to be other
life forms out there.
It's my view that there
are multiple phenomena that
are all interrelated.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> At the end of the day, we're
trying to understand the nature
of our reality, how things
could be possible when they seem
to defy the laws of physics
as we know them today.
Our consciousness is
entangled with space itself,
with everything that we witness.
We can't deny an
experience once we have it.
So perhaps our fascination
with the mystery of UAPs,
could these be an
extraterrestrial life form
visiting us?
How are they getting here?
It is perhaps a way for us to
understand who we really are,
how we fit within the bigger
picture in the cosmic map
of the universe.
>> What's a few thousand years
to a galaxy that is billions
of years old?
These are the
civilizations that could
be millions of years
ahead of us or perhaps
millions of years behind.
That's the scale of the galaxy.
And that's why I believe they're
out there and possibly even
here.
Our main problem is that
we assume they're just
as primitive as we are.
They can digitize
their consciousness
and put it on a laser beam
and shoot the laser beam
at the speed of light.
What's at stake is our
understanding of reality
itself.
Our worldview could shatter
with one credible incident that
cannot be refuted.
>> The only explanation
that makes any sense is that
there's something of higher
intelligence that's got
advancement over our technology.
I think it's going to
change things in the world.
People are going to understand
there's something out
there that isn't us.
It isn't harming us, and
we can learn from it.
This is a paradigm shift.
>> Hi, Bill.
>> Hi.
>> Good to see you again.
>> I know.
I'm so looking forward
to what you have.
>> Oh, my God.
>> Oh, really?
>> Crazy.
>> That crazy?
>> Don't waste another instant.
I need to see what
you've got there.
>> OK.
I've shown you
some things before
that we found that were
very, very interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> It's not a bird.
It's not a plane.
It's not a blimp.
>> It's Superman.
[LAUGHS]
>> I mean, that has
definitely been identified.
>> I can't tell you how
excited I am to look at what
you've got.
>> It's incredible.
So keep your eye on
this side of the frame.
You see that?
>> It's darker.
Yeah.
>> Uh-huh.
>> And then lightens up.
>> And disappears.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Crazy.
[LAUGHS]
It isn't crazy.
It's crazy.
>> It's insane.
>> Did anybody
else analyze that?
>> Everyone.
Don't forget, our scientists
have taken all the data
for eight weeks nonstop, looking
into what could this possibly
be.
This is radiation emission.
And look at that.
>> And there is a--
>> Huge burst.
>> Incredible.
>> Exactly of 43.37.
That happens exactly
at the same time
as that opening and closing.
Then it correlates with radar.
They saw this
cluster that happens
to be exactly in the
location of that anomaly.
So--
>> OK.
So you've got a spike
in the radiation.
>> Exactly.
>> You've got a figure.
So what you're saying
is that it's amorphous.
It opens and closes.
It contracts.
So it's nothing like
we know, nothing
that is human knowledge.
>> Exactly.
>> We're pointing at something
as saying how mysterious
our world is.
>> This is what we think
could be a wormhole,
some sort of gateway,
some sort of--
>> What about it's
expanding and contracting?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, wormhole is
a separation in time.
>> Yes.
>> And so that you can go
through this separation.
You can go into
another time zone.
>> That is what the
scientists are investigating.
That has never been
explored before in this way
and recorded and
measured in this way.
>> I think that's wonderful.
>> Yeah.
>> I think it's glorious that
you've gone to all this time
and expense to look at phenomena
that we don't know anything
about, trying to measure it.
That's great.
That's just wonderful
that you're doing that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I hope that with our
endeavors out here that people
will see that we can research
this stuff without negative
consequences, and we can
know what these things are.
And I hope that in the future
that people will come together.
>> It took a lot of work to
get to the end of this thing.
At this moment, having
proved what we did
and to be successful, it's
hard for me to find the words.
I feel paid back.
And we changed the road.
>> It went above and
beyond my expectations.
They supported each other.
They took care of any problems.
And I just can't
say anything other
than they're absolutely
amazing people.
>> I've never seen anything
like that before, ever.
It was something out
of a movie almost.
And the fact that
it wasn't military,
that it wasn't government,
the fact that it
was normal people
seeking answers,
I love that also because
they're accessible.
The government will
always classify data.
The government will always
hide data, obviously, but boom.
There it is.
It's on a roof in California.
[LAUGHS]
>> Incredible scientists are
doing incredible scientific
experimentation and research to
see if there's more to this UAP
phenomena.
And it's going to change
the culture in the world.
Scientists are going to
have to start taking this
more seriously if
we're going to get
to the bottom of the phenomenon.
>> And indeed we found evidence
of strange events that you just
you can't explain away.
You're not going to tell me
you have a radioactive bird
or plane.
That's complete nonsense.
This phenomenon, whatever
it is, is not a hoax and not
an optical illusion.
We have legitimate anomalies.
The next step in our
jobs is to continue
analyzing the nature and the
properties of these objects
so that someday we
can finally make
some definitive conclusions
about what this phenomenon is
really about.
Is it natural, man made,
or not of this Earth?
>> I believe we started
something very important
in the field of UAP research.
If we discovered a wormhole, a
portal, a stargate of some sort
to other realities,
or perhaps for now,
we can just call it
a tear in the sky.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Definitely some stuff going
on that we don't know about
for sure.
>> I think there's other beings
on other planets that have
visited Earth.
>> No, I think no one's told us
they visited us because we'd be
scared.
>> Some things we're
not supposed to know.
>> That's why they
keep it a big secret.
That's why there's a conspiracy.
>> Because they're way
smarter than we are.
>> No one's ready.
>> And probably don't really
want to be associated with
a bunch of morons.
>> They're definitely on some
science that we're not at yet.
>> I think if anything,
we've taken from them.
>> They might be ahead
of us or behind us.
We never know.
>> Probably they
have the iPhone 21.
They're just waiting
till the right time
to give that
information to Apple.
>> If hypothetically a
spaceship would land right now
and an extraterrestrial
will say, hey, Bill,
come on board with me.
>> I would love to.
I would embrace that
and say, come in peace.
We live in peace.
We want knowledge, and
I'd go into the spaceship
and let them give me a baby.
>> Aw.
I love that.
>> The next time you are
kidnapped by an alien
civilization, for God's
sake, steal something,
an alien hammer, an alien
pencil, an alien paperweight.
There's no law against stealing
from an extraterrestrial
civilization.
You're not going to
go to jail, and you'll
have proof, living
proof that you've
been in that flying saucer.
>> I think it's extraordinary
that you've spent your time
and your money doing that.
If we could explain something
that humans don't understand
and we have a valid certified
explanation of something that
has been a mystery and
no longer is a mystery,
that only adds to this
textbook of knowledge
that human beings are
striving every day to fill.
And if you can fill that
with one sentence, let alone
a chapter, it would be wondrous.
And I am filled
with joy that you're
making these forays out into
the stuff we see and don't see
and trying to find
an explanation.
That's wonderful,
and I wish you well.
>> Thank you.